# Instruments

Properties that accurately identify the instruments that are used to measure environmental observations and help to interpret their variables, putting data into context. The metadata are designed to identify the devices themselves (instrument instances), the real-world assets with instantaneous capabilities and configurations that were used to measure the data, rather than the identification of material instrument designs (models).

To request additions or changes please raise a new [GitHub issue](https://github.com/I-Ocean/common-metadata/issues/new)

The "Data type" values are S for string, N for numeric, Date for a date string and D for the type of the data variable.

Attributes
----------
<table border="2" cellpadding="5"> 
<tr><td><strong>Name</strong></td><td><strong>Data type</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Allowed values</strong></td><td><strong>Link</strong></td></tr> 
<tr><td>date_valid_from</td><td>Date</td><td>Commission date.</td><td>ISO 8601</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
<tr><td>date_valid_to</td><td>Date</td><td>Decommission date.</td><td>ISO 8601</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
<tr><td>metadata_link</td><td>S</td><td>A link to further metadata or provenance information about the physical instrument.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr>
<tr><td>calibration</td><td>S</td><td>A list of calibration instance identifiers that are in the file. They identify the calibrations associated to the instrument. The calibrations do not necessarily need to be applied to the data generated from the instrument. Use a blank, comma or newline separated lists if more than two calibrations are assigned.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr>
<tr><td>installation</td><td>S</td><td>A list of instrument installation instance identifiers that are in the file. They identify the instrument locations and orientations associated to the instrument. Use a blank, comma or newline separated lists if more than two installations are assigned.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr>
<tr><td>comment</td><td>S</td><td>Miscellaneous information about the instrument.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
</table> 

Metadata variables
------------------
<table border="2" cellpadding="5"> 
<tr><td><strong>Name</strong></td><td><strong>Data type</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Allowed values</strong></td><td><strong>Link</strong></td></tr> 
<tr><td>instrument_pid</td><td>S</td><td>A globally persistent identifier (PID) for the instrument instance generated by a formal identification system such as digital object identifiers (DOI) following <a href='https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/persistent-identification-instruments-wg'>RDA PIDINST</a> specifications.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
<tr><td>uuid  <br /><a href='http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/W07/current/IDEN0007/'>[sdn_variable]</a></td><td>S</td><td>Universally unique identifier (UUID) for the instrument instance generated by a local system.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
  <tr><td>instrument_name <br /><a href='http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/W07/current/IDEN0002/'>[sdn_variable]</a></td><td>S</td><td>Plain language label for the instrument.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
<tr><td>serial_number <br /><a href='http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/W07/current/IDEN0005/'>[sdn_variable]</a></td><td>S</td><td>A number assigned to each instrument instance that enables a producer to distinguish a product from all others produced to the same design.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
<tr><td>model_id<br /><a href='http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/W07/current/IDEN0003/'>[sdn_variable]</a></td><td>S</td><td>URI identifier of the instrument model design.</td><td>L22 URI</td><td><a href='http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/L22/current/'>L22</a></td></tr> 
</table> 

Metadata variable attributes
----------------------------
<table border="2" cellpadding="5"> 
<tr><td><strong>Name</strong></td><td><strong>Data type</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td><strong>Allowed values</strong></td><td><strong>Link</strong></td></tr> 
<tr><td>long_name</td><td>S</td><td>A descriptive name that indicates a variable's content. This name is not standardised.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
<tr><td>units</td><td>S</td><td>Units of a variable's content.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
<tr><td>data_variable</td><td>S</td><td>The observed property to which the metadata applies (e.g. the detection limit of observed property temperature).</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr> 
<tr><td>sdn_variable_name</td><td>S</td><td>Preferred label from a NVS controlled vocabulary term that defines the metadata variable.</td><td>NERC Vocabulary Server (NVS2.0) preferred label</td><td> <a href='http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/'>NVS</a></td></tr> 
<tr><td>sdn_variable_url</td><td>S</td><td>URI for the from a NVS controlled vocabulary term that defines the metadata variable.</td><td>NERC Vocabulary Server (NVS2.0) URI</td><td> <a href='http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/'>NVS</a></td></tr> 
<tr><td>sdn_uom_name</td><td>S</td><td>Preferred label from a NVS controlled vocabulary P06 term that defines the metadata's units.</td><td>P06 preferred label</td><td><a href='http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/P06/current/'>P06</a></td></tr> 
<tr><td>sdn_uom_url</td><td>S</td><td>URI for the from a NVS controlled vocabulary P06 term that defines the metadata's units.</td><td>P06 URI</td><td><a href='http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/P06/current/'>P06</a></td></tr> 
</table> 
